README.md, before:

Glovebox
=========

A high-level wrapper around [libtfhe](https://github.com/tfhe/tfhe/). This is extremely **experimental**, alpha, and by all means not release-ready - feel free to peek at the features, but don't rely on its API.

Check out the examples folder to see it in action.

Note that this project is distributed under a **non-commercial license** (specifically, the [Commons Clause](https://commonsclause.com/) on top of Apache 2.0). For commercial usage please contact the author: capacitorset@gmail.com.

## Usage

 * Install the requirements detailed in `tools/verilog-to-glovebox`
 * `cd tools/verilog-to-glovebox`
 * `./transpile.sh ../../src/autogenerated/add.{v,cpp}`
 * `./transpile.sh ../../src/autogenerated/mul.{v,cpp}`
 * `cd ../..`
 * Install TFHE v1 (https://github.com/tfhe/tfhe/tree/v1.0.1)
 * Install the GSL
 * Install rpclib
 * `cmake . -DPLAINTEXT=0` (PLAINTEXT=1 uses a mock implementation and enables debug flags)
 * `make`

## Tests

 * In addition to TFHEv1 and the GSL, clone [Rapidcheck](https://github.com/emil-e/rapidcheck/)
 * `cmake . -DPLAINTEXT=0 -DTESTS_ENABLED=1`
 * `make glovebox_test`
 * `bin/glovebox_test`

## Licensing

Copyright 2018 CapacitorSet `<capacitorset@gmail.com>`. Licensed under the terms in the file "LICENSE".

Contact the author for commercial usage and licensing.

Commit message:

Update readme to link to getting started

README.md, after:

Glovebox
=========

A high-level wrapper around [libtfhe](https://github.com/tfhe/tfhe/). This is extremely **experimental**, alpha, and by all means not release-ready - feel free to peek at the features, but don't rely on its API.

Check out the examples folder to see it in action, or head to the [Getting Started](https://capacitorset.github.io/Glovebox/) docs for an overview of the features.

Note that this project is distributed under a **non-commercial license** (specifically, the [Commons Clause](https://commonsclause.com/) on top of Apache 2.0). For commercial usage please contact the author: capacitorset@gmail.com.

## Usage

 * Install the requirements detailed in `tools/verilog-to-glovebox`
 * `cd tools/verilog-to-glovebox`
 * `./transpile.sh ../../src/autogenerated/add.{v,cpp}`
 * `./transpile.sh ../../src/autogenerated/mul.{v,cpp}`
 * `cd ../..`
 * Install TFHE v1 (https://github.com/tfhe/tfhe/tree/v1.0.1)
 * Install the GSL
 * Install rpclib
 * `cmake . -DPLAINTEXT=0` (PLAINTEXT=1 uses a mock implementation and enables debug flags)
 * `make`

## Tests

 * In addition to TFHEv1 and the GSL, clone [Rapidcheck](https://github.com/emil-e/rapidcheck/)
 * `cmake . -DPLAINTEXT=0 -DTESTS_ENABLED=1`
 * `make glovebox_test`
 * `bin/glovebox_test`

## Licensing

Copyright 2018 CapacitorSet `<capacitorset@gmail.com>`. Licensed under the terms in the file "LICENSE".

Contact the author for commercial usage and licensing.
